---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}

Education
======
* B.S. in Electrical Engineering, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (Recife, Brazil), 2010-2015
* Undergraduate Exchange Student, University of Minnesota - Twin Cities (Minneapolis, MN) 2012
* M.S. in Electrical Engineering, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (Recife, Brazil), 2015-2016
* Ph.D in Electrical Engineering, École de Technologie Supérieure (Montreal, QC), 2016-2020 (expected) - Mitacs Globalink Graduate Fellow

Work experience
======
* Areva Renewables Brazil (Recife, Brazil), August 2013 - March 2014: Power Plant Automation Intern
  * I was an intern on the automation department. My main duties were documentation of network topology and PLC logic, technical support to the field engineers and dealing with equipment suppliers. In one particular project, I was able to identify the improper placement of a costly flow meter on a cooling pipeline, helping the company avoid further losses.

Research Experience
======
*  École de Technologie Supérieure (Montreal, QC), August 2016 - Currently: Graduate Researcher
  * Modeling and optimization of non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) techniques for 5G networks. More specifically, my work focus on user scheduling, channel allocation and power optimization in NOMA heterogeneous networks.

*  Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (Recife, Brazil), August 2015 - July 2016: Graduate Researcher
  * I worked on a project, on the cryptography laboratory, where I designed a physical layer authentication (PLA) system based on chaotic signatures. I proposed a framework to evaluate the chaotic sequence from a information-theoretic perspective, and derived a lower bound on the security performance of the system with respect to impersonation, substitution and replay attacks. State-of-the-art PLA rely on low SNR signatures, while the proposed system has a theoretical security lower bound independent of noise.

*  Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (Recife, Brazil), August 2014 - July 2015: Undergraduate Researcher
  * I worked on the cryptography laboratory designing a chaotic pseudo-random sequence generator and post- processing techniques for security applications. The proposed generator circuit has a significantly smaller footprint than other state-of-the-art chaotic pseudo random sequence generators. The sequences generated by the simulated circuit passed in all NIST tests for pseudo random sequences.

*  École de Technologie Supérieure (Montreal, QC), Summer 2014: Mitacs Globalink Research Assistant
  * Design of a feedback envelope power amplifier to operate on microwave frequencies using CMOS technology.


Skills
======
* Programming
  * C and C++ 
  * Python 
  * Matlab
  * Data structures and algorithms 
  * Machine learning/deep learning frameworks: sklearn, Keras and Tensorflow.
* Telecommunications: 
  * Physical layer security 
  * Radio resource management 
  * Multiple access techniques (TDMA, FDMA, OFDMA, CDMA, NOMA, SCMA)
  * 3G (WCDMA and UMTS)
  * 4G (LTE, LTE-Advanced) 
  * Multicarrier modulation (OFDM)
  * Multi antenna systems (MIMO)
  * Channel modeling.
* Mathematical Programming: 
  * Integer and combinatoric optimization
  * Linear and nonlinear optimization 
  * Non-convex optimization 
  * Mixed integer nonlinear optimization
  * Game theory
* Statistics
  * Data analysis 
  * Supervised and unsupervised learning 
  * Stochastic geometry
  * Dimensionality reduction
  * Deep neural networks (CNN, RNN, LSTM) 
  * Stochastic signal processing.

Publications
======
  <ul>{% for post in site.publications %}
    {% include archive-single-cv.html %}
  {% endfor %}</ul>
  
Teaching
======
  <ul>{% for post in site.teaching %}
    {% include archive-single-cv.html %}
  {% endfor %}</ul>
  <!-- 
Service and leadership
======
* Currently signed in to 43 different slack teams -->
